libpedsim {#mainpage}
=========

PEDSIM is a microscopic pedestrian crowd simulation library. It is
suitable for use in crowd simulations (e.g. indoor evacuation
simulation, large scale outdoor simulations), where one is interested
in output like pedestrian density or evacuation time. Also, the
quality of the individual agent's trajectory is high enough for
creating massive pedestrian crowd animations (e.g. for motion pictures
or architectural visualization). Since libpedsim is easy to use and
extend, it is a good starting point for science projects. See the
[examples](http://pedsim.silmaril.org/examples/) page for example
pictures, short movies, and for screenshots.

The PEDSIM library allows you to use pedestrian dynamics in your own
software. Based on pure C++ without additional packages, it runs
virtually on every operating system. PEDSIM has been developed and
tested on [Linux](@ref linux). Also supported, but slightly less
tested, is [Visual Studio](@ref windows) on Windows. In the
[ecosystem](http://pedsim.silmaril.org/ecosystem/) directory you find
additional parts that use or extend the PEDSIM library. They are meant
to give a quick overview of the capabilities, and are starting points
for your own experiments. Most of them are built using the Qt
Framework, which you'll need to download separately.

The pedestrians are visible on the user interface in real-time. Using
the file or network-based output, both batch and real-time processing is
possible.

To create video sequences the output of PEDSIM is usually fed into a
rendering engine, where realistically looking humans are
created. These humans walk based on the trajectories generated by
PEDSIM.


## General Usage Notes

- Create a Ped::Tscene
- Create a Ped::Tobstacle
- Add the Ped::Tobstacle to the scene
- Create a Ped::Tagent
- Create a Ped::Twaypoint
- Add the Ped::Twaypoint to the Ped::Tagent
- Add the Ped::Tagent to the Ped::Tscene
- Call Ped::Tagent->move() for each timestep

See the Code Example further down, and have a look
at the full source code, available on the <a
href="http://pedsim.silmaril.org/download/">download</a> page.

## Detailed Class Documentation

There is a complete documentation of the classes in the library. It is
automatically generated out of the source code. You can <a
href="http://pedsim.silmaril.org/documentation/libpedsim/latest/annotated.html">
access this documentation online here</a>.  This same documentation is
delivered as PDF file with the library for offline use.
 
## Code Example

This example shows the very basic usage of the library. No fancy
graphics, of course, only text output to the console.  This is
example01.cpp in the examples folder.  

<dl class="warning"><dt><b>Please note:</b></dt><dd> Additional steps
around the example code might be required in order to compile it. If
you are using _Windows_ and, for example, _Microsoft Visual Studio_,
you can create a new console application using the wizard. Create a
file called `example01.cpp` and copy-paste the code into it. In the
project's _Properties_, under _Linker/Input_, add `libpedsim.lib` in
front of the _Additional Dependencies_ list. Click run. Also see @ref windows. </dd></dl>

On a typical [linux](@ref linux) system, if you are in the
_libpedsim_ folder, use this to compile, link and run:

~~~~ .sh
g++ examples/example01.cpp -o example -lpedsim -L. -I. -std=c++11
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=.
./example
~~~~

It will create 100 agents, which are placed somewhat randomly
distributed around -50/0. They should walk between -100/0 and 100/0.
An obstacle (wall) is placed from 0/-50 to 0/50. The agents must walk
around that obstacle. That's it, as simple as that: the agents will
walk with that little code. 

If you want to display some graphics, write a file, or send data over
the network, you will get the agent's positions with
a-&gt;getPosition().  Of course, you can inherit your own classes from
Tagent, Tobctacle etc, if you want to have more control.  See the <a
href="http://pedsim.silmaril.org/documentation/demoapp/index.html">Demo
App Source</a> for an example.

\include examples/example01.cpp

